{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf140
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red72\green72\blue72;\red250\green252\blue254;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Quad City Challenger II\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl374

\f1\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Quad City Challenger II long wing\
\'a0\
The Challenger ultralight is a high wing, tricycle gear kit aircraft with a frame structure built from 6061-T6 aluminum alloy tubing fastened with aircraft grade AN bolts and rivetsand covered with either pre-sewn Dacron envelopes or standard aircraft fabric. The engine is mounted in pusher configuration and turns the propeller through a reduction drive that uses a cogged tooth rubber belt.\
\'a0\
The kit can be purchased in 4 major sub-kits: the Tail Assembly, Fuselage, Wings, and Engine. The factory kit is supplied with the most difficult mechanical work already completed. This includes the primary fuselage framework along with the controls and the basic wing structures assembled at the factory. The kit builder is required to finish the smaller structural components, cover the aluminum frames with fabric, seal and paint the fabric and do the final assembly.\
The aircraft has the ability to soar with its motor switched off.\
\'a0\
In the USA the Challenger now falls under the Light Sport aircraft catagory. It can accept a variety of engines ranging from 50hp to 70hp.\
I built this model fallowing the specs from a real life one my dad and I built. because of the differing choices by builders there tends to be weight differences and also different engine choices. Our Challenger ended up being on the lighter end of the scale and we used the Hirth 3203 65hp two-stroke engine. With this combination we get a little better short field performance, which is evident in this model. The pusher configuration makes for the need of a lot of up elevator trim, which has to be changed with each throttle setting. This is a very fun airplane to fly. I have tweaked the flight model to match as closely as I can to the performance and handling of our real aircraft. I hope you enjoy this Model.\'a0\
The panel is created after the very simple panel we have in our plane. The left key is used for mags and right key for the starter.\
\
Starting Procedure:\
\
Battery on (Bottom switch Down)\
Mags on (Left key full right position)\
Mixture 3/4 of full (0 being no fuel,1 being full) mixture up shortcut is F6\
Ignition (Hold right key to engage starter until running)\
\
Radio added\
Amphibian version added\
Tundra version added\
\
For flying off the water it takes a little patience but once up to 40-45mph you can pull it off the water. It\'92s a small plane so you\'92ll need the waves set to 0, or at least pretty low unless you want to fight it.\
\'a0\
Thanks and credit go to beber and xpfr for the pilot.\
\'a0\
Created on a Mac and tested in X-plane 10.32\
\'a0\
Feel free to use and modify as you like, as long as it remains free and credit is given.\
\'a0\
Ghansen\
}